# MechaCar_Statistical_Analysis-
## Linear Regression to Predict MPG
After conducting our linear regression model and summary we can conclude various things about our data. We can determine which variables had what type of effect, how strong is the correlation, and if the model effectively predicts the mpg of the protype vehicles. First the variables that provided an non-random amount of variance are vehicle_length, ground_clearance, and the intercept. In other words the vehicle_length and ground_clearance do effect the mpg of these prototype-vehicles. Based off the p-value = 5.35e-11 we can determine that our slope isn't equal to zero. Our p-value being significantally lower than the value of .05 helps us come to that conclusion. After our results we can conclude that the linear model does predict mpg of MechaCar prototypes effectively. We can determine that based off of the results having postive correlation of .72

## Summary Statistics on Suspension Coils
After conducting our analysis we can see the dataframe for the whole suspension coil csv and we can see the dataframe seperated by lots. When comparing the total_summary with the lot_summary we can see some similarities and many differences. The means and medians are relatively the same, but the variance and sd are no where near eachother. The total variance and each lot variance differ significantly as well as the sd. The total variance(62.29) doesn't exceed our limit of 100. The first and second lot follow in line, but where we see the discrepancy is in lot 3. This lot has a variance over 100 at 170.29, this is the only lot where the current manufacturing data doesn't meet the design specification. The total lot, lot 1, and lot 2 all meet the current manufacturing design specification.

 ## T-Tests on Suspension Coils
 After completing our t-test for all the lots compared to the PSI we can conclude a couple of things about each individual lot and all of them as a whole. All the lots combined resulted in a p-value of .06, assuming that we have a significance level of .05 we can safely conclude the our null hypothesis is valid. Therefore the true mean is equal 1500psi for all the lots combined. After completing the t-test for lot one we can see that our p-value is equal to 1. We can once again conclude that the true mean is equal to 1500psi. For lot 2 our p-value was .61 so we can safely assume that the true mean is equal to 1500psi. Lot 3 was the only lot to have a p-value (.04) lower than our assumed significance level of .05. Therefore we can reject the null hypothesis and say that for lot 3 the true mean is not equal to 1500psi.
 
 ## Study Design: MechaCar vs Competition
 To test the validty of our MechaCar we would have to compare it to the top competitors in the car market. For that we would need two data sets one of our MechaCar and the other of the competitors. In these data sets we need things that are of interest to the consumers. For example we can compare mpg, price, safety ratings, comfortability, drive, and overall life of the cars. Our hypothesis will be as follows:
 * H0= The MechaCar and the Competitors cars have no differences
 * Ha= The MechaCar is superior than the Competitors vehicles
 After determining our hypothesis we will have to compare our MechaCar vs the competitors using various tests. I would use a two-sample t-test to determine whether our hypothesis are valid. The reason why is because we're allowed to compare both data sets. Along with that our p-value will tell us whether to accept or reject the null hypothesis. We would need a large amount of data from the MechaCar and the competitors. After receiving the data we can effectively test each variable with the competitors to determine which car is superior.
